# Advent of Code 2022

This is the repository for my solutions in Advent of Code 2022
![https://adventofcode.com/2022](https://adventofcode.com/2022)

The solutions of each day problems will be uploaded in separated Python
scripts. I will try to solve the problems on a daily basis, though it is
possible that some problems during the week wil be delayed to the weekend, when
I have more free time. I will not push the solutions to the problems the day
they are proposed to give my students some time to think about them.

I encourage you to try and solve the problems before looking up the solution!
This is a fun competition and a great way to learn the art of problem solving
using programming. Moreover, it is a nice way to start learning a new
programming language. Mindlessly executing my solutions and introducing them in
the system is completely pointless, so take this as a challenge with yourselves,
not a competition with your classmates, and think about the solutions on your
own. Of course, it is also a great way to learn about discussing programming
problems with your classmates, so feel free to share your opinions and questions
in the Telegram group we have created. We are here to learn, so do not be shy
and discuss about your solutions!

## Git, GitHub, and executing code from other developers

This repository is also a toy example so you can learn a bit about Git and
GitHub.  Git is an extremely powerful tool to maintain your source code, track
the history of changes you have made to it and, in the end, a nice way to
control the different versions of the code you are writing. GitHub, on the other
hand, is a website that allows you to share your Git repos with other
developers, so they can benefit from the code you have developed. You can
download the code in this repo using the following command in your terminal
(make sure git is installed in your system, you can install it using `sudo apt
install git`):

```
git clone https://github.com/fluque1995/aoc2022
```

Afterwards, you can get into the repository folder and execute the code inside
of it. For example, to execute the code for the first two problems, you will
have to do:

```
cd aoc2022
python day1.py
```

If some changes are introduced in the repo and you can bring them to your computer
from the internet, you have to `pull` those changes:

```
git pull
```

Try this command in a few days, when the repo is updated

## Repository content

In this repo, you will find basically two types of files:

- Inside the inputs folder, the input files for each day will be stored, in
  plain text format
- At the root folder of the repo, you will find python scripts named `dayX.py`,
  with the proposed solutions for the problem at the day `X`

### Happy coding! :christmas_tree: :snowflake:
